[Music]
in ancient times
humans studied the night sky and
discovered the worlds of mercury
venus
mars
jupiter
and saturn
but beyond this realm of knowledge
another world shine brightly
just waiting to be discovered
[Music]
uranus is the seventh planet from the
sun
from a distance of about 20 astronomical
units or 20 times the distance between
earth and the sun uranus orbits the star
once every 84 earth years approximately
the length of a human's entire life
this orbit causes each season of uranus
to last that much longer
theoretically a human living on uranus
would experience the four seasons only
once but each for about 21 years
partially due to its distance from the
sun uranus boasts the coldest
temperatures in the solar system
these icy temperatures dropping as low
as negative 370 degrees fahrenheit are
largely influenced by the planet's
composition
at about four earths wide uranus has an
earth-sized core made of iron and
magnesium silicate
the remainder approximately 80 percent
of uranus is a worldwide ocean of ices
made of water ammonia and methane the
chemical behind the planet's cool blue
color
this icy composition prevents uranus
from emitting much heat compared to
other planets making the blue world the
solar system's coldest
in addition to its extreme temperatures
and orbit uranus has a dramatic
orientation
while the other seven planets spin on
their axes like tops uranus appears to
roll along its equator
the planet is tilted at a near right
angle in which polar regions point
toward and away from the sun rather than
upward and downward
this tilt thought to be the result of
uranus's collision with at least one
celestial body
has also affected the orientation of
uranus's 13 rings and 27 known moons
unlike the rings and moons of other
worlds which orbit their home planets
horizontally
those of uranus orbit in a vertical
orientation along the planet's tilted
equator
much like a ferris
wheel uranus and its many unusual
features were a mystery to the ancients
and the planet was actually thought to
be a star
but in the late 18th century astronomer
william herschel discovered that the
celestial object was actually a new
world
the scientific community debated over
what the planet should be called and
eventually chose a name suggested by
astronomer johann alert bode
believed that since jupiter was the
father of the gods
and saturn was the father of jupiter
then this new planet should be the
father of saturn
si luz
but rather than following the tradition
of using names from ancient roman
religion bode instead opted for celes's
ancient greek equivalent
uranus
uranus the ancient greek god of the
heavens was then latinized to be
uranus
to this day uranus is still the only
planet that veered from tradition with
an ancient greek namesake a status most
fitting for a planet beyond convention
[Music]
you